hey Mark it is his first television
interview since being fired by TCW in
December we're going to talk about that
lawsuit in a minute but let's first talk
about the bump the bond fund performance
thanks for joining us sure double lines
total return bond fund it has since it
launched april six done twice as well as
TCW in that time frame three times
better than pemko this is a lot of
residential mortgage distressed
mortgages how how are you getting this
sort of performance well it's a
combination Jane of distressed
residential mortgages that are trading
as low as 40 or 50 cents on the dollar
and they probably won't return 100 but
we think they'll return 60 or 70 and
along the way we're getting an interest
rate of ten or even twelve percent which
helps to drive performance also we have
about a third of the fund and long-term
government guaranteed credit which has
done quite well since april six the
yield curve has rallied and long rates
have come down on all of this eurozone
you know noise in flight to quality and
we've also had gains on that so
basically all parts of portfolio are
clicking on all cylinders killing the
competition these are smart guys at
other funds to how are you picking these
mortgages well we have a team that had
been one of the best teams of the decade
all the way through the OS and you know
we've always had very good performance
what we do is we sift through the market
very diligently with about 45 fixed
income professionals focused for the
total return bond fund on residential
mortgages and we're basically trying to
buy the very cheapest part of the market
I used to manage 75 billion dollars yes
and I always felt like my mandate was to
try to buy the cheapest ten percent of
the market every day now that we're
managing a little over three billion
dollars at double line we're trying to
buy the cheapest one half of one percent
of the market and that's cheaper than
the cheapest ten percents where
investors are benefiting from our from
our activity you've gone from 75 billion
to 610 million and I'm sure TCW would
like some of the fees you're making now
let's talk about this lawsuit they claim
everything in this lawsuit from breaking
company policy by having in your office
pot hardcore porn sexual devices to the
legally more serious charges of stealing
information on every client that you
were
lying to clients stealing proprietary
research taking out boxes you or your
co-defendants it's alleged that is a lot
of smoke why shouldn't I believe there's
not some fire there well unfortunately
TCW has chosen to use a lawsuit and
attempt to compete against a fledgling
firm all of their charges are spurious
and malicious and they'll be proven over
time it's pretty clear that what drives
the performance and it drives what we do
is to people and this idea that somehow
there is proprietary information that is
responsible for my long term track
record or responsible with double line
is doing is foolish we've always used to
advertise at TCW that our most important
asset was the people and go down the
elevator every single day and people
with double line we just use a basic
blocking and tackling basic research
we've never we've never liked black
boxes or any kind of a whiz-bang type of
technology none of this is true no none
of it's true at the same time you want
to recoup over potentially a billion
dollars in fees from them that you say
are current or potential profits on the
fees that you start other funds you
started there if they drop your loss
this lawsuit will you drop yours well
from the very beginning I wanted a
cooperative departure from TCW from the
day I was fired I wanted to settle and
have an amicable type of disengagement
TCW I think felt that they would be able
to basically confiscate all of the
fruits of the labor that my team had
accomplished over time and just save a
lot of economics will you settle I would
settle with TCW yes I what's your
outlook I know we have to wrap it up but
we're gonna have more on CNBC com that's
a nice thing about the website what's
your outlook on the market right now I
think the market is very people are very
pessimistic for the short term on both
the Euro which is collapsed and also on
the stock market which is tied together
with that I think for the short term the
Bears are going to be disappointed and
that the market will hang in there but I
do think that the economy is going to
run into trouble in 2011 with tax
increases and the pulling away of
stimulus and so ultimately I think the
next big move in risk assets is going to
be lower
so I I think I've been advocating at
about eleven fifty on the sp500 is a
good liquidation point for a strong hand
investors that were able to buy back in
the below 1000 category Jeffrey Gundlach
from double line thank you by the way
guys he has also said before that he
thinks managers of huge amounts of
assets like maybe pimco should be
subject to any too-big-to-fail
litigation or legislation back to you